This scene was illustrated for Akbar by La’l, Makund and Naman for the Akbarnama around the 1590s.
There are people in the middle of city discussing the new leader of Ajmer.
There are numerous people throughout the picture showing that the city is rather bustling and populated.
The buildings are covered with several colors and floral patterns with use of stone intarsia, white marble and painted stucco.
The conical style buildings represent Jah han giri architecture which was historically found in Lahore, the location where Husain Quli Khan was originally from.
The painting displays large gateways and pillars which has relation to mosques and is Gujarat-derived denoting its religious association.
Similarly, there is calligraphy / sanskrit on the wall that is reading left to right from a persian influence, blending religion and culture from this era.
The painting displays Tarkhan Dih vana making an allegiance with the Mughal General, Husain Quli Khan at Ajmer, a fort located in North-Western India.
Tarkhan, his trusted servant, bows before the people of Ajmer and the Mughal General who sits patiently in a tent surrounded by guards.
Akbarnama, “Tarkhan Divana acted wisely, and having made a treaty he was enlisted in the royal army.”
One guard carefully allows Tarkhan to bow before Husain as he is uncertain of Tarkhan’s actions, the General accepts his offering and graces him with a hand.
12 - 3 rd picture
The soldiers depicted in this painting of higher rank at the treaty ceremony are seen bowing their head to honor the General.
Husain holds this event for many people to see in order to pass ownership of the Ajmer to Tarkhan Divana, this then grants husain the ability to send off to Jalaur to bring into his possession.
The soldiers are frowning, looking away and seem to be confused as to why Husain is passing off ownership.
The soldiers and citizens’ garments are painted bright and colourful with floral designs.
The painting shows that soldiers who are of a lower rank have less remarkable garments and more simplistic weapons.
The painting portrays a recognisable differentiation between social rank from the way one would dress at this ceremony.
Here Tarkhan is seen wearing garments without floral patterns and without a conical hat resembling a level of authority in comparison to the soldiers of Ajmer and Husain himself.
19 - 4th
The focused portion of the picture displays 3 workers of Ajmer carrying textiles and produce; for instance, food, wine that is stored in a clay vase, and silk for bedding this symbolizes a strong utilization of agriculture and production of goods for trade among this region.
The wall around Ajmer is extremely fortified emphasizing security against potential siege on the city from a unwanted army.
The workers seem to be offering the goods to the Husain Quli’Khan at the ceremony in order to display their devoted allegiance.
The event is seemingly public.
The event is seemingly public. This here displays the range of social hierarchy throughout this city, the workers are wearing the same garments as Tarkhan, soon to be with ownership of Ajmer.